Hello, everyone and welcome back.
In this video, we'll go over
the challenge solution 2.
This is the solution for the overloaded
operators using non-member functions.
So I'm in the section 14 workspace
in the challenge-solution2 project.
And you can see my header file
now from the private modifier
down, it's exactly the same.
The only thing that's changed is
that I've declared prototypes for
my overloaded operator functions,
and they are all friend functions.
Now we don't have to do that.
We can certainly not have friend
functions and work through
getters and setters and so forth.
But for the purposes of this video,
I'm making everything a friend.
So I've got access to everything
that's private in this class,
which is really just that
string pointer right here.
Now as you can see, when we
have something like operator
minus in this case, we're
overloading the unary operator.
There's exactly one item
in the parameter list.
And when we have something
that's binary, we've got two
parameters in the parameter list.
So it's a little bit different
from using member methods.
And that's about it.
Now what we do is we basically
have to implement these functions,
and you'll see they're very,
very straightforward, same
idea as with the member method.
So let's go to the implementation file here,
and we'll start with the equality operator.
Now we don't have -- remember,
in all of these cases, we no
longer have a this pointer.
There's no object dot operator method
because they're non-member functions.
So we don't have that this pointer.
But we do have another object.
And in this case, we have
left-hand side and right-hand side.
And all we want to do is compare
the left-hand side string with
the right-hand side string.
And you can see that we're
doing that right here in
the string compare function.
We're comparing left-hand side
string to the right-hand side string.
And if we get back to 0, they're the
same, and that's what we're returning.
So we're returning true false here.
Same exact idea.
The not equal operator is exactly
the same thing except I'm negating
the result right here with
the bang for the less than and
greater than overloaded operators.
You can see that the code is almost
exactly like it was in the member
method version except that I don't
have this on the left side, I've
got an LHS or left-hand side object.
Okay, so let's take a
look at make lowercase.
In this case, this
is a unary function.
So I've just got one
argument right here.
And what I'm doing is
same thing I did before.
I create an area in memory to copy
that string into and what I'm going
to do is make it lowercase, and
that's what I'm going to do here.
I've allocated enough space for that
object strings length plus 1, then
I copy that object string character
by character into buff, and then I
simply loop through buff and make each
character is lowercase equivalent.
When I'm done with that, I construct
an object that I'm going to
return right here, and I construct
it based on buff, return it.
And don't forget to delete
the buffer as we always do,
so we don't leak memory.
The concatenation operator, same idea.
I've got the left-hand side
and the right-hand side.
So obviously, you're going to have
left-hand side plus right-hand side.
So we need to allocate
another character buffer here.
That's the length of both those
strings added together plus 1.
So you can see here we have
left-hand string, here we
have right-hand string.
We copy the left-hand string
over, and then we concatenate
the right-hand string onto that.
We create the new object here based
on that new string that's concatenated
now, and we return it, and of
course, we delete the buffer as well.
That's it. Really straightforward.
Now they get really really
simple to implement because
we've got our plus equal, right
our concatenate and a sine.
Well, we can implement that based
on our concatenation because
plus equal simply means left-hand
side equals left-hand side plus
right-hand side, so we can express
that directly which leads to
very, very readable code here.
The repeat operator or the
star operator that we're
overloading, same idea.
Remember, repeating something just
means adding it over and over.
So we'll take advantage that we've
already overloaded that concatenation
operator right here on line 44.
We're using it right there.
So given n, we're just simply going
to loop that many times and say temp
equals temp plus left-hand side,
do it again and again and again.
And we're just basically
tacking on that string to
itself over and over and over.
When we're done, we return temp.
Our star equal operator or repeat
and assign operator works the same.
In this case, it's a binary operator,
it expects an object and then the
star and then an integer is how many
times you're going to repeat it.
So we'll do the same thing.
We'll take advantage of the fact
that we've already overloaded
the repeat operator or the
star operator in this case.
We'll simply say left-hand side
equals left-hand side star n.
That will call this.
It will take care of it.
And then we return left-hand
side, so we can keep assigning.
And the last two that are
left are the pre-increment and
post-increment operators, which
just make the strings uppercase.
So the semantics for the pre-increment
is simply just increment that
string, it's really straightforward.
The string belongs to obj, right.
Remember, this is a unary operator,
so we only have one object here.
And obj has an str pointer that points
to a character array on the heap.
So what we're doing is just looping
through that character array one
item at a time, one character
at a time, and we're setting the
item of that object string to
the uppercase equivalent of it.
And then we just simply return
the object when we're done.
So you can see we're actually
modifying obj here, which
is exactly what you would
expect with a pre-increment.
So the post-increment is very similar.
We need to keep a copy of
the original object, so
we're doing that right here.
We're creating a copy temp
based on object, which is the
one that's being incremented.
Then I'm doing a pre-increment of
object, which takes care of making
all the characters uppercase.
And then I'm returning the old object.
So you can see that this
line right here actually
modifies the current object.
And this line right here returns
a copy of the original object,
which is the exactly what the
semantics are of post increment.
I wrote a comment here,
as I mentioned before.
Make sure you call pre-increment
and not post-increment.
If you call post-increment, this
method here will be called over
and over recursively and you'll
never be able to break out of it.
So that's it.
If we run this, we should have exactly
the same output as we had before.
Let's try it,
enter a string to repeat.
And we'll do the same string I entered
before dash three zeros and a dash.
And I believe I said five
last time, I'll do that again.
And there we go.
We've got our five 0 0 0 strings.
We've got 60 of these now,
and the rest of the code is
exactly the same as it was.
All right, so congratulations.
I hope you did well on this challenge.
You can say now that you're no
longer c++ beginner programmers.
That's for sure.
Yeah, you've learned a lot about
the way c++ works behind the
scenes, operator overloading, the
constructors, the move assignments,
the regular copy assignments.
So you've learned a lot.
The next step is to learn about
inheritance and polymorphic functions,
and that's where we're going to go.
And I should mention one last
thing is when you look at these
test cases that I created,
these aren't really test cases.
They're just little pieces
of code that exercise some of
those methods that we wrote
in functions that we wrote.
When you do testing, you really
want to do proper testing using
unit testing, using some frameworks
such as you know unit test plus
plus or something like that.
So keep that in mind, we're doing
this just to keep it simple and
not have to learn other frameworks
in order to learn this framework.
So I'll see you in the
inheritance section.